docs/constructa/hosting.md, before:

# Hosting on Hetzner with Dokku

This guide gets you a **clean, reproducible** deployment:

- **Terraform** provisions a Debian 13 VPS with Docker & Dokku
- **Compose (server-only)** runs **Postgres, MinIO, Redis, Meilisearch, Worker**
- **Dokku** runs the **web app**; it reaches the services via `host.docker.internal`
- **Let's Encrypt** handled by Dokku

---

## 1) Provision the server

```bash
cd infra/hetzner
export TF_VAR_hcloud_token=YOUR_HETZNER_TOKEN
terraform init && terraform apply
````

This installs:

* Docker Engine
* Dokku v0.36.7
* Non-root `deploy` user with your SSH key
* UFW firewall (SSH/HTTP/HTTPS)

## 1.5) Bootstrap with Ansible (recommended)

Automation lives in `infra/ansible/`. It syncs the compose bundle, renders `/opt/constructa/.env`, boots the services, and configures Dokku to point at them.

```bash
# install Ansible galaxy collections locally
ansible-galaxy collection install -r infra/ansible/requirements.yml

# copy + edit secrets (kept local)
cp infra/ansible/group_vars/constructa/vars.example.yml infra/ansible/group_vars/constructa/vars.yml
$EDITOR infra/ansible/group_vars/constructa/vars.yml

# update inventory with your host/IP
$EDITOR infra/ansible/inventory/hosts.ini

# run after terraform apply completes
ansible-playbook -i infra/ansible/inventory/hosts.ini infra/ansible/site.yml
```

What the playbook does:

* syncs `infra/deploy/` into `/opt/constructa`
* writes `/opt/constructa/.env` from your var file
* starts Postgres/MinIO/Redis/Meilisearch + worker via compose
* runs bucket provisioning + `pnpm run db:migrate`
* ensures the Dokku app exists and points to `host.docker.internal`
* if you are using Dokku-first, sets `HOST_BIND_ADDR=0.0.0.0` so Dokku
  containers can reach the compose services via the host gateway

---

## Dokku‑first (recommended, zero registry)

Use this if you don't want a registry at all.

**First run:**

1. Run the playbook once (core DB/object store/search come up; the compose worker stays idle until you point it at a real image).
2. **Deploy once** so Dokku builds the image locally:

   ```bash
   pnpm run ex0 -- deploy --env dev --ref <main-or-sha>
   # or --env prod
   ```

   Dokku produces `dokku/constructa:latest`.
3. Point Compose at that local image and re‑run Ansible:

   ```yml
   # in vars.yml under constructa_compose_env
   APP_IMAGE: "dokku/constructa"
   APP_TAG: "latest"
   ```

   Leave `constructa_run_compose_migrate` at its default `false`; Dokku already executes migrations during deploy. Re-run the playbook and it will (re)start the worker using the **local Dokku image**—no registry push/pull needed.

---

## 2) DNS

Point your app domain (e.g. `app.example.com`) to the server's IP (a Cloudflare proxied A record is fine).

## 3) Boot core services (Compose on the server)

> These run locally on the VPS and bind to **127.0.0.1** only.

> If you ran the Ansible playbook in step 1.5, the commands below were already executed. Keep them for reference or when recovering manually.

```bash
# Copy the infra bundle; or let the GH Action do it
scp -r infra/deploy/* deploy@your.server:/opt/constructa

ssh deploy@your.server
cd /opt/constructa
cp .env.sample .env  # fill values
# For Dokku-first, set HOST_BIND_ADDR=0.0.0.0 so the Dokku app reaches services

# Start Postgres, MinIO (+provision bucket), Redis, Meilisearch
docker compose -f compose.yml up -d db minio redis meilisearch
docker compose -f compose.yml up provision-minio || true

# Start background worker (migrations run during Dokku deploy)
docker compose -f compose.yml up -d worker
```

**Why this layout?** It avoids plugin variance for Postgres/MinIO on Dokku and gives you a stable path for data persistence across server resets.

> **Important:** This project does **not** use Dokku's Postgres/Redis addons. The database, cache, object store, etc. all run inside the compose stack above. Always keep that stack running before deploying; otherwise Dokku will fall back to plugin-provisioned resources that lack required extensions like `pgvector`.

## 4) Create the Dokku app

```bash
# one-time app create
ssh root@your.server "dokku apps:create constructa"

# domain, http routing, and host mapping to reach compose services
ssh root@your.server "dokku domains:set constructa app.example.com"
ssh root@your.server "dokku proxy:ports-set constructa http:80:5000"
ssh root@your.server \"dokku docker-options:add constructa deploy,run '--add-host=host.docker.internal:host-gateway'\"
```

Now set required configuration. The key detail: **point to your loopback services** (if you skip this, Dokku will try to use its addon database, which does not ship `pgvector` and your migrations will fail):

```bash
ssh root@your.server "dokku config:set constructa \
  NODE_ENV=production PORT=5000 \
  DATABASE_URL='postgresql://user:password@host.docker.internal:5432/ex0' \
  S3_ENDPOINT='http://host.docker.internal:9000' S3_REGION='us-east-1' \
  S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID='minioadmin' S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY='minioadmin' \
  S3_BUCKET='constructa-files' S3_ENABLE_PATH_STYLE=1 S3_PREVIEW_URL_EXPIRE_IN=7200 \
  MEILI_HOST='http://host.docker.internal:7700' MEILI_API_KEY='changeme-master-key' \
  REDIS_URL='redis://host.docker.internal:6379'"
```

Enable HTTPS:

```bash
ssh root@your.server "dokku letsencrypt:enable constructa"
```

## 5) Deploy the app

### Option A – Simple: push from your laptop

```bash
git remote add dokku-prod dokku@your.server:constructa
pnpm run ex0 -- deploy --env prod
```

### Option B – CI/CD (GHCR): see **docs/constructa/cicd.md** for registry login & tags.

---

## Common Ops

```bash
# Logs
ssh root@your.server "dokku logs constructa -t"

# Scale (web only, worker is managed by compose)
ssh root@your.server "dokku ps:scale constructa web=1"

# Rebuild
ssh root@your.server "dokku ps:rebuild constructa"

# Rotate certificates
ssh root@your.server "dokku letsencrypt:force-renew constructa"

# Disk cleanup (on demand, safe)
pnpm run ex0 -- gc --age 720h   # prune unused images/cache older than 30 days
```

### Why `host.docker.internal`?

Dokku containers live on the **dokku** network, but your services live in the **compose** network. Mapping `host.docker.internal` to the Linux host gateway allows app containers to talk to services published on loopback (`127.0.0.1:…`). We set that with:

```bash
dokku docker-options:add constructa deploy,run "--add-host=host.docker.internal:host-gateway"
```

Commit message:

feat: add deploy-image command for direct Docker image deployment to Dokku
- Introduced a new CLI command `deploy-image` that builds a local Docker image and deploys it to Dokku without the need for git pushes.
- Implemented functionality to resolve Dokku remote details and handle image transfer over SSH.
- Updated documentation to include usage instructions for the new command.

docs/constructa/hosting.md, after:

# Hosting on Hetzner with Dokku

This guide gets you a **clean, reproducible** deployment:

- **Terraform** provisions a Debian 13 VPS with Docker & Dokku
- **Compose (server-only)** runs **Postgres, MinIO, Redis, Meilisearch, Worker**
- **Dokku** runs the **web app**; it reaches the services via `host.docker.internal`
- **Let's Encrypt** handled by Dokku

---

## 1) Provision the server

```bash
cd infra/hetzner
export TF_VAR_hcloud_token=YOUR_HETZNER_TOKEN
terraform init && terraform apply
````

This installs:

* Docker Engine
* Dokku v0.36.7
* Non-root `deploy` user with your SSH key
* UFW firewall (SSH/HTTP/HTTPS)

## 1.5) Bootstrap with Ansible (recommended)

Automation lives in `infra/ansible/`. It syncs the compose bundle, renders `/opt/constructa/.env`, boots the services, and configures Dokku to point at them.

```bash
# install Ansible galaxy collections locally
ansible-galaxy collection install -r infra/ansible/requirements.yml

# copy + edit secrets (kept local)
cp infra/ansible/group_vars/constructa/vars.example.yml infra/ansible/group_vars/constructa/vars.yml
$EDITOR infra/ansible/group_vars/constructa/vars.yml

# update inventory with your host/IP
$EDITOR infra/ansible/inventory/hosts.ini

# run after terraform apply completes
ansible-playbook -i infra/ansible/inventory/hosts.ini infra/ansible/site.yml
```

What the playbook does:

* syncs `infra/deploy/` into `/opt/constructa`
* writes `/opt/constructa/.env` from your var file
* starts Postgres/MinIO/Redis/Meilisearch + worker via compose
* runs bucket provisioning + `pnpm run db:migrate`
* ensures the Dokku app exists and points to `host.docker.internal`
* if you are using Dokku-first, sets `HOST_BIND_ADDR=0.0.0.0` so Dokku
  containers can reach the compose services via the host gateway

---

## Dokku‑first (recommended, zero registry)

Use this if you don't want a registry at all.

**First run:**

1. Run the playbook once (core DB/object store/search come up; the compose worker stays idle until you point it at a real image).
2. **Deploy once** so Dokku builds the image locally:

   ```bash
   pnpm run ex0 -- deploy --env dev --ref <main-or-sha>
   # or --env prod
   ```

   Dokku produces `dokku/constructa:latest`.
3. Point Compose at that local image and re‑run Ansible:

   ```yml
   # in vars.yml under constructa_compose_env
   APP_IMAGE: "dokku/constructa"
   APP_TAG: "latest"
   ```

   Leave `constructa_run_compose_migrate` at its default `false`; Dokku already executes migrations during deploy. Re-run the playbook and it will (re)start the worker using the **local Dokku image**—no registry push/pull needed.

Need to bypass Dokku’s build step entirely? Build and ship the image from your laptop in one line:

```bash
pnpm run ex0 -- deploy-image --env dev
```

This command runs `docker build`, streams the image over SSH, and executes `dokku git:from-image` under the hood (swap `--env dev` for `--env prod` as needed, and add `--tag my-tag` if you want a different tag).

---

## 2) DNS

Point your app domain (e.g. `app.example.com`) to the server's IP (a Cloudflare proxied A record is fine).

## 3) Boot core services (Compose on the server)

> These run locally on the VPS and bind to **127.0.0.1** only.

> If you ran the Ansible playbook in step 1.5, the commands below were already executed. Keep them for reference or when recovering manually.

```bash
# Copy the infra bundle; or let the GH Action do it
scp -r infra/deploy/* deploy@your.server:/opt/constructa

ssh deploy@your.server
cd /opt/constructa
cp .env.sample .env  # fill values
# For Dokku-first, set HOST_BIND_ADDR=0.0.0.0 so the Dokku app reaches services

# Start Postgres, MinIO (+provision bucket), Redis, Meilisearch
docker compose -f compose.yml up -d db minio redis meilisearch
docker compose -f compose.yml up provision-minio || true

# Start background worker (migrations run during Dokku deploy)
docker compose -f compose.yml up -d worker
```

**Why this layout?** It avoids plugin variance for Postgres/MinIO on Dokku and gives you a stable path for data persistence across server resets.

> **Important:** This project does **not** use Dokku's Postgres/Redis addons. The database, cache, object store, etc. all run inside the compose stack above. Always keep that stack running before deploying; otherwise Dokku will fall back to plugin-provisioned resources that lack required extensions like `pgvector`.

## 4) Create the Dokku app

```bash
# one-time app create
ssh root@your.server "dokku apps:create constructa"

# domain, http routing, and host mapping to reach compose services
ssh root@your.server "dokku domains:set constructa app.example.com"
ssh root@your.server "dokku proxy:ports-set constructa http:80:5000"
ssh root@your.server \"dokku docker-options:add constructa deploy,run '--add-host=host.docker.internal:host-gateway'\"
```

Now set required configuration. The key detail: **point to your loopback services** (if you skip this, Dokku will try to use its addon database, which does not ship `pgvector` and your migrations will fail):

```bash
ssh root@your.server "dokku config:set constructa \
  NODE_ENV=production PORT=5000 \
  DATABASE_URL='postgresql://user:password@host.docker.internal:5432/ex0' \
  S3_ENDPOINT='http://host.docker.internal:9000' S3_REGION='us-east-1' \
  S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID='minioadmin' S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY='minioadmin' \
  S3_BUCKET='constructa-files' S3_ENABLE_PATH_STYLE=1 S3_PREVIEW_URL_EXPIRE_IN=7200 \
  MEILI_HOST='http://host.docker.internal:7700' MEILI_API_KEY='changeme-master-key' \
  REDIS_URL='redis://host.docker.internal:6379'"
```

Enable HTTPS:

```bash
ssh root@your.server "dokku letsencrypt:enable constructa"
```

## 5) Deploy the app

### Option A – Simple: push from your laptop

```bash
git remote add dokku-prod dokku@your.server:constructa
pnpm run ex0 -- deploy --env prod
```

### Option B – CI/CD (GHCR): see **docs/constructa/cicd.md** for registry login & tags.

---

## Common Ops

```bash
# Logs
ssh root@your.server "dokku logs constructa -t"

# Scale (web only, worker is managed by compose)
ssh root@your.server "dokku ps:scale constructa web=1"

# Rebuild
ssh root@your.server "dokku ps:rebuild constructa"

# Rotate certificates
ssh root@your.server "dokku letsencrypt:force-renew constructa"

# Disk cleanup (on demand, safe)
pnpm run ex0 -- gc --age 720h   # prune unused images/cache older than 30 days
```

### Why `host.docker.internal`?

Dokku containers live on the **dokku** network, but your services live in the **compose** network. Mapping `host.docker.internal` to the Linux host gateway allows app containers to talk to services published on loopback (`127.0.0.1:…`). We set that with:

```bash
dokku docker-options:add constructa deploy,run "--add-host=host.docker.internal:host-gateway"
```
